So morning, Mandy, I'm Chris and I'm a volunteer here and I understand you're a volunteer too.
Yep, that's right.
So perhaps you'd like to tell us, I've got to say that the date is the 15th of November
and it's 11.30 and it's a beautiful morning.
It's absolutely beautiful and stunning.
It's so lovely to be able to have such a beautiful place to come to and I feel really lucky that
I literally live around the corner.
I can just walk here to come here to visit and something I've done since I've actually
lived in Kingcoyd.
So that was 1982, moved to Kingcoyd and yeah, so I come up from then.
So what's your first memories of the reservoir?
Literally walking the dogs.
I had three dogs, I had two Yorkshire Terriers and a Great Dane and used to come up here
regularly to walk well.
Yeah, you weren't meant to bring your dogs around here, but we did come through the fence
and come up and it was, I suppose in those days you were classed as really quite wild
because the grass was just long, you didn't have all the paths, it was just, you just
come up here and walked and you saw a few people fishing and other people walking the
dogs and people walking.
So it was very completely different to what it is now.
So when you first started, was the reservoir still open to the public?
Yes, yeah, you could come up here.
The main entrance was obviously here by where the cafe and the buildings are now, but obviously
because I lived over on the other side, on Kingcoyd's side, it just used to go through
the parks, through Riespenne Park and then comes literally through the hedges and through
the fencing and come up there and so come up all year round.
So it was an unofficial hole in the fence, was it?
An unofficial hole in the fence, yeah, yeah.
And you'd come up, yeah, I worked, I worked in the NHS and sometimes it was really quite
stressful and then you finish work and literally you'd just come up here and sit.
And I often come up, just sit on the bank, just sit up here in the evening, you know,
bring the dogs or whatever and just come and sit and think, oh, how lovely it is to be
able to come out and just relax and have that time out.
Yeah, so it was...
And were dogs officially allowed on there?
No, I don't think... no, no, no.
I think occasionally they'd have like a warden coming around, I think they would sort of
say, no, your dog's up here, but you know, a lot of people did and I think as long as
they were up ahead.
So when you were coming, there was fishing going on and sailing?
Yeah, yeah, I've got a friend, because I walked up here recently with her and she used to
come fly fishing up here and she said, oh, crikey, I'm coming up here fly fishing.
But I didn't.
My brother used to do a lot of fishing, but I don't think he actually came up here and
fished, but yeah.
So you've been here since and or in your house since 1982.
Yeah.
So you've seen a lot of changes over this site of years.
So can you remember when when it got closed?
Yes, I can remember the date, but just talking to Richard earlier on, it was 2005 when it
was closed.
And I have to say, we're quite devastated we couldn't come up here from, as I say,
times I've come here before, I mean, it's covered in the snow, the kids come up with
their sledges and they'd be going down on the slopes.
And it was lovely.
And one of the biggest memories I have really is coming up here as my son got his GCSE
results at the Cardiff High and he wouldn't open the envelope.
And he was so worried about opening the envelope that we literally came up here.
I said, I know where we go.
We're going to set the reservoir.
We sat on the bank.
I said, whatever the results are, it doesn't matter.
I says, we're just sit there and open them up there.
So we literally came up, sat on the, you know, on the on the line of reservoir and opened
his results on the end.
They were very good. All very good.
Yeah. He stayed on to the A levels and yeah, yeah.
But that was a real lasting memory of sitting sitting up here, opening, opening the in those
days, the brown envelope with all the results.
Lovely.
Yeah.
So did once it was closed, was there any way of getting into the site itself?
No, because they, they barred it or they put all the, it was like a wire net in it.
First of all, I can remember the first people that took it over.
It was all wired and just closed off.
And then they, then they started draining the, the Lanish and reservoir, which.
So you remember seeing it empty?
Yeah.
Did see it empty?
Did, where did we come through?
We did actually come up here when it was empty.
I can't remember how we got in, but we did get in.
So I know I come up here with my son, he's older than and again, was probably wasn't
official, but I think we actually came in, probably walked through the fields because
there's a lot of walking up.
You can go up to Liz Vane, can't you walk all through the fields and so on.
And probably got in through somewhere and come in because he did say that point, I
think he had a drone.
He said, I really must bring my drone up here and photograph it empty and film it
empty.
I don't think we actually did, but yeah, it did come in a few times, but it was, it
was awful to see it empty.
It was, it was very, very sad and the worry that they were going to build on it.
So yeah, I did get involved with RAG.
I say I was working at the time, so I probably didn't have loads and loads of
time, but obviously was involved with the newsletter, subscribed and sort of put
money in into all the guys that were really working hard to save it and did some of
the sponsored walks.
Yeah.
Did you get involved in the deliveries as well for the leaflets?
No, I didn't get in that, but I had stickers in my house, stickers on the car and
then we did the walks and stuff.
So yeah, so involved in that and yeah, I can't believe how long it took really to
get it all stopped.
But it was good.
It was stopped.
Yeah.
How many you can't deny that.
But you played a part and you must have some quite strong emotions really about
the fact that where we are today is just, it's completely different.
I love it now, but I have to say when I first saw the plans and they wanted to
put a building on here and all the rest of it, when I saw it, I wasn't keen
because I just remember it being so wild and so just, and I thought, I don't need
another Rothes Park.
We've got Rothes Park.
We've got all those facilities and I'm thinking, do we want that?
And that was something I really didn't feel we needed.
I know lots of people would, but I didn't personally, I liked the idea of it being
much, much more sort of like wild and just free to just come and walk around.
But I have to say now the way it's been done, I think it's great.
You know, I love dogs.
We've got family dogs.
I am actually glad that you can't have a dog up here.
Yeah.
And I'm glad that it's restricted.
There's no bikes and you know, and all the rest of it.
So if you do come up here, it's much more, it's much more relaxed and calm to come
up here and we love the water.
We've been on the water.
We've been on the, on the big motherboards, the family, and we've
absolutely had absolutely way a lot of time out there.
And just swimming up here with my sons.
You've been in the water as well.
You've been in the water of Utah.
Oh yeah, it's definitely in the water.
So yeah, so that part of it absolutely loved now.
Yeah.
And yeah, so obviously got involved in becoming a volunteer now that I'm retired
and yeah, come up here a lot just for a walk and hope to do some more volunteering
going forward, you know, different things.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
I think we'll stop it there.
Yeah.
Okay.
Fine.
Lovely.
Thank you.